I'm Wesley Morris and
like a lot of people, I am watching Love
Story JFK Jr. and Carolyn Bessette.
>> Carolyn, this is John Kennedy.
It's been two months of this show now.
It's very popular
and it's about to come to an end. So,
what do we watch? What just happened?
I would say, okay, for me what happened
was I was watching this really cute
sitcom for about four episodes.
>> [laughter]
>> Where you know, single white lady goes
to work and like has the time of her
life in some big American city. Mary
Tyler Moore is coming to mind.
Jennifer Aniston when Rachel gets that
job at Ralph Lauren for a couple seasons
on Friends. I have a job interview at
Ralph Lauren tomorrow.
>> Carrie Bradshaw, Sex and the City. She
didn't go to work, but she But but she
did go to work. Every time she left that
apartment, she was doing her job as
Carrie Bradshaw. But also just loving
life. There's there's so much of this
show that involves Carolyn Bessette
>> [music]
>> just going to her job at Calvin Klein
where she rises through the ranks to
become a pretty successful person at the
company and she loves going to New York
City. There's this great moment where
she's walking through the office and
she's just like
>> How good was Floron? How was Floron? It
was great, wasn't it? And I'm like,
yeah, that to me is that NBC sitcom
version of Carolyn Bessette's life. She
meets JFK Jr. and the script gets
flipped. The show goes from like Sex and
the City
He's not coming.
Oh my god. to Rosemary's Baby.
It goes from this sitcom to a horror
movie and I think the nature of the
horror is just one of these sort of
subgenres of romance that involves a
woman making a choice to be with a man
who is either going to ruin her life or
her life is going to end in some way,
some terrible way.
>> A woman. HAIL SATAN. HAIL SATAN. In
Rosemary's Baby, you're watching
somebody descend into
this relationship with a cult. And you
know, I'm not here out here trying to
like compare the Kennedys to
>> [laughter]
>> Ruth Gordon and the and the demon posse
that she runs, but there is something
about watching this woman make a choice
to marry into a kind of darkness. What
Carolyn Bessette needs a minute to think
about is whether she wants to knowingly
become Rosemary. Do I remain this free,
independent spirit in New York City
having the time of my life or do I give
all of that up
to marry a man who
he may not want to change my life, but
the world he comes from and all of the
things attached to it, in this case
meaning, you know, the tabloids, the
paparazzi, [music]
is that going to be worth the sacrifice
of all my like carefree single girlness?
And she chooses yes, I'm going to marry
this man and then once she marries him,
she's like, oh [__]
What did I do? I married this man and I
can't leave the house now because the
National Enquirer
is parked outside this apartment all
day. Right, it takes a minute to show
you
how this feels for her, what this is
like watching her descend from this
happy-go-lucky person who's got some
emotional complexity too, but
essentially into this flavorless,
stuck, trapped, caged creature.
There's a moment where we've [music]
watched Carolyn sit home all day doing
really not much of anything
and [music] just thinking about her
life. JFK Jr. comes home. She's dead.
This is in the middle of Princess
Diana's death
and she is really reeling from this
person having died and her life flashes
before her eyes essentially
in in watching this terrible crash that
kills three people that the paparazzi
causes.
They killed her.
She did everything right, posed for
every photo, gave them everything they
wanted and they
They still killed her. Am I going to die
a paparazzi death? She's probably
wondering.
Does it not scare you?
Cuz something comes up for him too
that's trauma oriented and they're
arguing about their lives together. You
want to know why I can't watch this?
Because if I do, I'll never [__]
stop, okay?
This is the shift that the show makes
from like light, happy-go-lucky to like
deep, dark and depressed. And you're
basically living this show through
Carolyn Bessette's eyes in a really deep
way. She is really resisting becoming
Rosemary in Rosemary's Baby, but I think
what she realizes
toward the end of this show is it's too
late. She already is.
And you know, there's a great moment, I
think it's episode eight, where I mean,
it might be too much, but it's not
really. She is just like in her boredom
and misery just sort of like crawled
under a glass coffee table and is just
kind of pinned there and the shot kind
of lingers. It is a wonderful metaphor
for the entire experience that she has.
It's not a closet. She could have just
hid in the closet,
>> [laughter]
>> but she doesn't. She hides under a thing
that we can all see through, which is
glass and she's trapped there. And I
don't know. I feel like that is a really
deep situation that this show
is very patiently unspooling. It is
taking its time showing you the actual
horror that, you know, at the time in
the '90s when we were everybody was sort
of paying attention to this relationship
in real time, there was a kind of
complexity or at least this show is
arguing that there was a complexity
happening behind the scenes and that
this woman was really perhaps suffering
in this major way about what her life
had become and it does not seem happy.
It also seems fitting that this show
comes from Ryan Murphy's production
company.
>> [music]
>> Uh it's the same place that has brought
you everything from Glee and Pose. It's
also the same company that got you The
People vs. O.J. Simpson, The Menendez
Brothers show and the show about Monica
Lewinsky and Bill Clinton.
These real examinations of the American
psyche and soul.
And you know,
it's also the same company that has
given you many seasons of something
called American Horror Story. What's the
thing that scares you the most?
It is now official, Donald Trump is the
next president of the United States. And
I would argue
that the only reason this show was
called Love Story JFK Jr. and Carolyn
Bessette is
I mean, it's only because American
Horror Story was already taken.
>> [music]